Hi, as you get ready to start the program
to create stories from templates,
let's summarize what you've learned
about the ArrayList class in Java.
ArrayLists are like arrays.
Both are indexable collections,
allowing you to access elements
with an integer index.
ArrayList can grow as
elements are added to it.
This means you don't need to know in
advance how much space to allocate for
an ArrayList like you did for an array.
Like arrays, and
individual string elements,
indexing in an ArrayList starts with zero.
It takes the same amount of time to access
the first element of an ArrayList or
an array, as it does to access
the ten thousandth element.
It might help you to think of
ArrayLists as a collection of boxes,
each addressable with a number.
To use the ArrayList class, you must
import it from the java.util package.
You can import just the ArrayList class,
or use the asterisk and import java.util.*
to gain access to all of the classes
in the package, like the random class.
When you create an ArrayList,
you specify the type of elements
stored in the ArrayList.
Using the angle bracket syntax that Java
uses for generic or general elements.
Here you see an ArrayList that
can contain string objects.
But ArrayLists can also
store integer objects, too.
Though the list must store integers or
strings, not the same type in one list.
The integer class allows int
values like zero or 57, or
negative 352 to be
stored in the ArrayList.
The integer class automatically converts
an int value like 57 into a value
stored as an integer object.
You've seen several methods
used in ArrayList objects.
The .add method adds an element
to the end of an ArrayList.
The ArrayList grows as needed.
The .size method returns the number
of elements stored in an ArrayList.
Typically this is the number
of elements added via .add.
You can write code to access
individual elements with and
integer index using the .get method and
you can change the value stored at
a specific index using the .set method.
ArrayLists are typically processed and
accessed using loops.
Here's a typical indexing loop that
processes each element of an ArrayList.
This for loops typically started 0 and
loop to less than a size of an ArrayList,
which is exactly .size elements.
Within the loop, each array element is
accessed using the dot get method and
the loop index variable.
When accessing array elements in
a loop like this do not call .add or
.remove which will change
the size that the loop iterates.
Typically causing
a problem in your algorithm
because you will either skip elements or
access invalid elements.
You can also access the elements
in an array with an iterable loop,
the same kind of loop we used with
the edu.duke iterable classes.
In an iterable loop, your code indicates
the type of value stored in the ArrayList.
Your loop takes on each value stored
in the ArrayList one at a time,
just as with the file resource or
image resource classes.
You can use this kind of
loop when you don't need
the index of each ArrayList element but
just the element itself.
Just as with an indexing loop, do not call
.add or .remove with an iterable loop.
In this case, Java will generate
a run time error if you try.
ArrayLists are a very useful
tool when used properly.